you should also accept that like you
weren't perfect a year ago
or two years ago or three years ago or
four years ago or
shockingly you're not perfect now and
that each and every iteration of you.exe
has bugs how to know what to fix
and change versus accepting who you are
i know dr k
talks a lot about not trying to be
someone you're not
but how do you know what you should
change about yourself versus accept
if i'm not happy with who i am should i
try to change or should i learn to
accept myself
okay let me explain something to y'all
really simple accepting yourself has
nothing to do with
with not changing where on earth and i
don't blame this person
but where on earth is a society did we
say that once you accept something
that's the way it is forever
this is the biggest problem do you guys
get this
like this person was conditioned to
think that accepting yourself means not
doing anything
and like this causes so many problems
right like
if you can't accept me at my worst you
don't deserve me at my best
therefore i'm gonna be a [ __ ] half of
the time
and if you don't like me i'm gonna feel
self-righteous
and call you selfish it's your fault
that you can't accept me i don't need to
change you don't deserve the good parts
of me
if you're not willing to take the dumps
that i
dump in your mouth twice a week
where where on earth did we start
thinking that accepting people means
that they shouldn't change
because in my experience like actually
changing starts with acceptance so like
i'm an addiction psychiatrist chat
what that means is i deal with addicts
so these people come in and there are
two kinds of people that come in
one is i'm addicted to alcohol
i have a problem does that when someone
comes in and they accept
that they have a problem do i say to
them good job you accepted that you have
a problem
now don't change at all because
acceptance means you don't need to do
anything else
go out there and drink bro you're an
alcoholic so you should just keep
drinking and you accept that
and that's gonna be peace and
mindfulness and all that crap
no and then
comes in the second type i don't have a
problem
which one of those people is going to
change acceptance is the first
step to changing accept where you are
and then do something about it
the two go hand in hand so when someone
comes in and says dr k
i'm an alcoholic i'm like sweet now we
know what the problem is
let's [ __ ] fix it and then for the
person who's like i don't have a problem
there's nothing to change person's not
going to change
so this is what i want you all to do how
do you know what to accept
and how do you know what to change the
answer is everything
accept each and every aspect of yourself
whatever you are right now this is the
present i know this sounds kind of weird
but you can't do anything about anything
that has happened before now
there is literally if you were if you
have graduated from college and you
don't have a job one year
out because of the pandemic there is
nothing you can do about that
so accept it you are a college graduate
with no job for one year
and then change it the problem is that
the reason we tell you guys to accept is
because so many people get
caught up trying to rewrite history
instead of accepting the present
if i had done this if i had done that if
the pandemic this
if this person did that if my parents
did this if this if that
then i would not be here and all of that
thinking is completely useless
because that [ __ ] happened there are no
ifs
life like reality is here you are
unemployed
accept it and then people are sort of
like but then what about all the self
blame and shame and all that crap yeah
so like work through that right that's
what we're here for too
but understand that like it's not your
fault that you made mistakes
before i know it sounds kind of weird
you made those mistakes but like the
person that's here now
has to clean that [ __ ] up like
the you of today is not the same you
that was there a year ago it's kind of
weird
right like you have to like whatever you
did what you did
should you you can beat yourself up for
it if you want to you can also accept
that you just made mistakes
and then change it's not your fault
it's the dude from a year ago do you
guys get that it's kind of weird
but like when i was 21 and failing in
college that wasn't me
it's not the me of today it's the me of
yesterday those are completely different
people
completely different people you'll get
that like 17 years ago when i was
failing out of college and went to india
for the first time i was not dr k
how on earth can i blame that kid for
what he did like he didn't know any
better
the poor kid was so confused
he was grown up indian his parents were
like you got to be a doctor to mean
something in life
he had a boner for going to harvard and
had zero chance of going there
like the kid like needed help why am i
going to blame that
kid like he didn't know what he was
doing
like how on earth could i expect that
this kid would understand what i
understand now
clueless kid it's not as bad like he did
the best that he could like he was just
so clueless like
cut the kid a break he did what he could
and 17 years later
theoretically it's the same mind and the
same body but it's a completely
different person
so accept yourself where you are if you
made mistakes you made mistakes
right that's the nature of things you're
not born you don't
pop out of your mother's womb at level
you pop out of your mother's womb at
level one and then here you guys are
at level 22 beating yourselves up for
being
level six and not being able to do stuff
when you spawn into this world you're
level one
and depending on the rng sometimes you
spawn with good gear
sometimes you spawn with like some sweet
loot right
like you're in a guild and they like
give you all these legendaries
and so even though you're level one you
could still down level 10 mobs
and some of y'all are born at level one
and you're actually like given debuffs
because of your upbringing and then you
beat yourselves up for being level 15
and we're grinding on level 10 mobs
that's because
your parents gave you cursed gear and
it's like giving you penalties and stuff
and so what does it mean to accept it
means like this is what self-compassion
is
you know we talk like oh like just have
self-compassion man just forgive
yourself bro
learn to love yourself like that's what
that is how do you do that
it's by acknowledging that the kid who
was 17 years ago didn't know [ __ ]
why am i gonna blame him this guy can't
do anything
he's a noob i'm gonna get mad at him
i don't have i don't have the time to
get mad at him i have [ __ ] to do
and you guys should realize that too
like why are you beating yourself up
okay like two years ago you fell in love
with a girl
and you were like one of these nice guys
so you like asked her out
and then she said no then you call her
the c word and now she won't talk to you
and then you feel like such an idiot
it's like yeah you were an idiot but
like did you know any better
really are you gonna do it again so
accept that you did it
accept that you don't know what you're
doing and then like change
right become a decent human being work
on it try to understand yourself so you
should accept
each and everything about yourself you
should also accept that like you weren't
perfect a year ago or two years ago or
three years ago
or four years ago or shockingly you're
not perfect now
and that each and every iteration of
u.exe
has bugs and it's going to make mistakes
and you should debug that [ __ ] and
improve whatever bugs you have
it's like you know you dot exe
version 2.29
and then u.exe version 2.31
but like you got to accept like you got
to accept that there are some bugs there
before
you can fix them right and so life is a
process
of like balance patches and bug fixes
and you are the program so you should
absolutely accept
and absolutely change nah see look so
someone's saying okay be careful i'm so
bugged
i'm [ __ ] maybe kind of true but let's
be clear
because one of the tricky things about
the process
is that our debugging process is
sometimes messed up
so when you have things like depression
like it's gonna tell you that things are
way worse than what you are but that's a
diagnostic that's produced
by your mind so you can't trust it
right it's tricky because in the mind of
a depressed person they're gonna say
it's so hopeless there's nothing that i
can ever do to fix it
there's no point in trying that's that's
a bug it's not a feature
your mind telling you that is a bug it's
not a feature
learning what you can trust about your
mind is one of the most useful skills
that i've ever learned so it's funny
because someone's saying ncs every bug
is a feature yeah
so we've got a good video about this
about on dr k's guide but
depression is a feature too chat right
so like i want you all to think about
this for you it's gonna be wild okay
think about this
depression is a conserved experience
across the human race
conservative experiences across the
human race tend to have
evolution behind them so it's actually a
feature
and what it comes down to is we have
this part of our brain called the
default mode network
and depression is the evolutionary price
we pay for having a default mode network
so what happened in our brain is we
developed the capacity for
self-reflection
so like if you look at what's different
about humans versus most animals it's
metacognition
we can think about ourselves so instead
of trial
just doing pavlovian conditioning and
trial and error
i can like think about myself right so
instead of just figuring out what works
in relationships after i have three
terrible relationships
my brain has the capacity using the
default mode network to think about
myself
and then i can ask myself the question
hey am i doing something wrong in
relationships
it's a meta-level question it's not like
if you know there's like the
relationship level question there's the
metal
am i doing something wrong not is this
wrong in a relationship
am i doing something wrong
that capacity for metacognition the
ability to think about ourselves
is what allows us to dominate the planet
because our problem-solving capability
it's like we have an
ai in our brain that can like problem
solve
it's not just pavlovian conditioning
it's not like stimulus response
reinforcement
it's like thinking about something on a
higher level
and that part of the brain is called our
default mode network
the interesting thing is that default
mode network is hyperactive in
depression
so what happens in depression is we
think about ourselves too much
the circuit is stuck on oh could i be
doing this something better oh i'm so
dumb
i'm so bad the reason that i didn't get
that job is because i'm so bad
you're thinking about you instead of the
job
it's all like up here in a metacognitive
level the oh people
would be better off without me oh the
only reason that people are inviting me
is because they're trying to be polite
they could never like me
it's all metacognitive thoughts about
you as a person
outside of the actual interaction and so
what we discovered is this thing called
the default
network and when it goes haywire which
allows human beings to be metacognitive
when it goes haywire we get depressed
and so then you can even ask the
question okay what about
you know so theoretically if i gave
someone a chemical
that shot off the default mode network
would it cure their depression
and the answer is yes yes it will
we have chemicals that do that now
that's how the psychedelics tend to work
cure is a strong word but you know it's
how they tend to function
and then also meditation shuts off the
default remote network
interesting look at that meditation is a
clinically
effective treatment for depression and
it happens to shut off the default mode
network
i wonder if there's a connection just
from a safety perspective they don't
cure depression
and secondly all of these things should
be used under the guidance of a medical
professional
because while they may have therapeutic
benefits from
for treating depression which are being
studied in clinical trials
jury's still out there we also want to
be really careful because i've seen
patients who have had
ptsd and perm like new anxiety disorders
from using psychedelics
so it seems like like most things like
if you think about anesthesia
right anesthesia can keep someone alive
after an accident and it can also kill
them
so most things in medicine like blood
thinners are another great example of
this
blood thinners can prevent you from
forming clots and they can cause you to
bleed to death
so most things in medicine should be
done under the guidance of a medic or
all things in medicine should be none of
the guidance of a medical professional
because what we've discovered
in medicine is that when you take some
random ass compound that exists outside
you stick it in your body
it can have good effects and it can have
bad effects
that's why we train people about how to
like give them properly